















A summary of the career of Rinus Michels, the best coach of 
according to France Football.

 

The

famous magazine, France Football, which is in charge of awar
d'Or, published a controversial ranking of the 50 best coach
in the history of soccer.

 

The

magazine based its ranking on three criteria: Achievements, 
career and impact.

 

Topping

the ranking is Rinus Michels, the Dutch coach who started ma
1965, a team that was close to relegation, and turned it int
in the world, even leading it to become European Champion in
coached FC Barcelona where he won the Laliga, the Copa del R
Champions Cup match. He coached the Netherlands national tea
runner-up in the 1974 FIFA World Cup and champion of the 198
Championship.

 

While

coach of Ajax he began to implement the invention for which 
"total soccer". Michels got the idea from Jack Reynolds, an

Englishman who was his coach while he was an Ajax player.

 

This

idea of "total soccer" meant that every player could play in
position. Thus, no defender, midfielder or striker remained 
position during the match. The center forward (Johan Cruyff)
midfield or play as a winger. The midfielders played as defe
opponent had the ball, and joined the attack when their team
full-backs were constantly moving forward, playing as a wing
combined with a pressure after loss that suffocated the oppo
 

Rinus

Michels has been called the "father of modern soccer", as ma
tactics we see today in our soccer, such as "tiki-taka" or t
"false 9", are tactics or style of play inherited from Miche
"total soccer".

 

His

attacking soccer led him to the bench of FC Barcelona in 197
the legendary relationship between soccer in the Netherlands
Two years later, Johan Cruyff joined the team. In Spain he w
in 1974.

 

Just

in 1974 he simultaneously managed the Netherlands national t
with the team qualified for the World Cup that year.

It

was with the national team, nicknamed the "Clockwork Orange"
Michels went down in history. He managed 10 matches, 9 of th
losing only the final against Germany. Despite losing the fi
enchanted the world with a style of play never seen before. 
and after in world soccer.

 

After

the World Cup, Rinus Michels began to make short-lived moves
returned to Ajax for one season, then returned to Barcelona 
del Rey in 1978.

In

1984 he returned to the Dutch national team, where four year
only title in the team's history: the 1988 European Champion
 

In

1992 he coached the Netherlands at the European Championship
his last coaching experience.

He

continued to work as a member of the UEFA Technical Committe
Michels died at the age of 77 on March 3, 2005 in Aalst, Bel
suffering from heart problems. Johan Cruyff would say at the
"both as a player and as a coach, no one taught me as much a
always admired his leadership".

 

