In

Englishman who was his coach while he was an Ajax player.

in 1974 he simultaneously managed the Netherlands national t
only title in the team's history: the 1988 European Champion
 

the legendary relationship between soccer in the Netherlands
This

runner-up in the 1974 FIFA World Cup and champion of the 198
Just

combined with a pressure after loss that suffocated the oppo
 

d'Or, published a controversial ranking of the 50 best coach
The

1992 he coached the Netherlands at the European Championship
magazine based its ranking on three criteria: Achievements, 
Two years later, Johan Cruyff joined the team. In Spain he w
position during the match. The center forward (Johan Cruyff)
 

his last coaching experience.

1984 he returned to the Dutch national team, where four year


and after in world soccer.

opponent had the ball, and joined the attack when their team


according to France Football.

After

It

 

Championship.



His

Champions Cup match. He coached the Netherlands national tea
full-backs were constantly moving forward, playing as a wing




 

the ranking is Rinus Michels, the Dutch coach who started ma
enchanted the world with a style of play never seen before. 


del Rey in 1978.

suffering from heart problems. Johan Cruyff would say at the
1965, a team that was close to relegation, and turned it int
A summary of the career of Rinus Michels, the best coach of 
"false 9", are tactics or style of play inherited from Miche
coach of Ajax he began to implement the invention for which 
attacking soccer led him to the bench of FC Barcelona in 197
in the world, even leading it to become European Champion in
midfield or play as a winger. The midfielders played as defe
He

Michels died at the age of 77 on March 3, 2005 in Aalst, Bel
Rinus

 

in the history of soccer.

 

position. Thus, no defender, midfielder or striker remained 




 

"total soccer".

Michels has been called the "father of modern soccer", as ma
in 1974.

career and impact.

losing only the final against Germany. Despite losing the fi
While

the World Cup, Rinus Michels began to make short-lived moves
"total soccer". Michels got the idea from Jack Reynolds, an

 

returned to Ajax for one season, then returned to Barcelona 
Michels went down in history. He managed 10 matches, 9 of th
was with the national team, nicknamed the "Clockwork Orange"
The

idea of "total soccer" meant that every player could play in
 

coached FC Barcelona where he won the Laliga, the Copa del R
tactics we see today in our soccer, such as "tiki-taka" or t
famous magazine, France Football, which is in charge of awar
always admired his leadership".

 

with the team qualified for the World Cup that year.

Topping

In

"both as a player and as a coach, no one taught me as much a
continued to work as a member of the UEFA Technical Committe
